<!-- Headings -->
# How to Handle an unresponsive SME
Not all of the SME's are easy to cooperate with. There are plenty of reasons why the project might be impeded. Nonetheless, such cooperation does not have to end in failure. Here there is some advice how to handle an unresponsive SME.


First of all, it is important to remember that we should take care of the relationship with a SME before starting a cooperation. It is helpful to break the ice beforehand. Finding a common interest or having a friendly conversation would help to get them to like you.
This way they are more likely to give you their time and attention when you need it.


A thing that also helps to maintain a good relationship with a SME is always being prepared. It is vital that you already know some of the details about the project you are going to work on.
Not only will it save you some time but also it shows that you are professional about the project.

You have to always remember to pay attention to the SME you are working with. Everyone likes to work with people who are well engaged. However, it is quite easy to get distracted. If you notice that a SME stops paying attention, you should try to engage them with questions. 

One of the ways to keep someone interested is giving them credits. If you happen to like any of their ideas, let them know that. Everyone likes to feel appreciated and that is just a simple thing that might affect the quality of your cooperation.


It is really important to agree on the deadlines that are convenient for you and the SME. Same about the way of communication. You need to do your best to always be on time. However, delays happen. If a SME doesn't keep a deadline, you should send a kind reminder. It is always nice to have some understanding but you also have to set your priorities and focus on other projects. Therefore, if you still get no message from a SME, regardless of the reminders that you sent, you should consider escalation.
It might seem a little bit too aggressive but you have other things to do and you have to show the SME that you are serious about the job.

The biggest challenge connected to the process of escalation is knowing whom you should contact. In most cases the person to contact would be a project manager. Involving someone else usually brings the benefits.
